---
title: My DAMOP 2017 talk
subtitle: Generation of atomic spin squeezed states in nanophotonic waveguides using QND measurement
layout: post
author:
  - Xiaodong Qi
  - David Melchior
  - Poul Jessen
  - Jongmin Lee
  - Yuan-Yu Jau
  - Ivan Deutsch
institute:
  - University of New Mexico
  - University of Arizona
  - Sandia National Labs
category: labnotebook
tags:
  - DAMOP
---

My submission has been accepted to be presented as a talk at the [APS 48th Annual Meeting of Atomic, Molecular and Optical Physics](http://www.aps.org/meetings/meeting.cfm?name=DAMOP17) and is currently on the program schedule.

***Day, Date***: Friday, June 9th, 2017

***Time, Session***: 9:24 AM–9:36 AM, [Session T7: Quantum Measurement](http://meetings.aps.org/Meeting/DAMOP17/Session/T7)

***Title***: [Generation of atomic spin squeezed states in nanophotonic waveguides using QND measurement](http://meetings.aps.org/Meeting/DAMOP17/Session/T7.8)

***Authors***:

- Xiaodong Qi  (University of New Mexico)
- David Melchior (University of Arizona)
- Poul S. Jessen (University of Arizona)
- Jongmin Lee (Sandia National Labs)
- Yuan-Yu Jau (Sandia National Labs)
- Ivan H. Deutsch (University of New Mexico)

***Abstract***:
Nanophotonic waveguides strongly enhance the entangling strength of the atom-light interface. We study their application to the generation of spin squeezed states of trapped ultracold cesium atoms in two geometries --- cylindrical optical nanofibers and square waveguides. We consider two different protocols --- squeezing the clock transition by the birefringence coupling and squeezing a spin coherent state via the Faraday interaction. We unify our analysis based on a universal parameter --- the optical depth per atom. In calculating the spin squeezing parameter, we have established a set of stochastic master equations to describe the individual and collective spin dynamics. Our simulation shows that \textasciitilde 10 dB of spin squeezing may be achievable with a few thousands of atoms on these nanophotonic waveguides. Our result can be generalized to other nanophotonic platforms, for implementing non-Gaussian states, and to improve quantum sensing precision using spin squeezing techniques.

***Presentation slides will be available after the conference.***

<center>
{% include image.html img="/en/assets/img/qrcode_DAMOP_talk_page.png" height="210px" title="Scan to load on your mobile device" caption="QR code for this page." %}
</center>
